# Stop Failing at Cold Email in 2025 - Teach Your Reps THIS

**URL**: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0KSenwLuFiE  
**Video ID**: 0KSenwLuFiE

---

A lot of sales teams are freaking out because they have no idea why they can't book meetings on cold email anymore. With a million one spam email bots that are literally flooding your prospects inbox with horrible messaging, a lot of sales leaders are asking, "Is cold email even worth it at all?" And the short answer is it is. But we have to prove that to you. And so in order to show you exactly how to make cold email work for your sales team, I brought on the best outbound trainer in the sales game that there is today. His name is Jason Bay. He has trained over 200 plus sales teams including Zoom, Ripling, Shopify, and Gong, which are some of the best sales teams in the world, full stop. And we're going to break down how to lead a cold email machine of a sales team in four steps. Number one is we're going to answer, does cold email even work anymore? Number two, we're going to teach you how to create your minimum viable cold email framework for your team. Number three, we're going to teach you how to teach it to your team in onboarding and then reinforce it as you coach them. And then lastly, number four, we are going to give you multiple metrics that you can use to tweak and level up your team so that you know that it's actually working. And along the way, we've partnered with the one and only Gong, who has analyzed over 85 million cold emails and given us data that backs all of the cold email benchmarks and all of the cold email tactics that we will share. So Jason, let's start with section one. Is cold email even worth it anymore? So, let's say you had two reps sending a thousand emails each. It's a lot of emails, right? It takes a lot of time to send that amount of emails. Your average rep is only going to book three meetings. Three meetings off of a,000 emails. Your top performer, however, is going to book 23 meetings. It's literally eight times more meetings. So, the question, does cold email even work anymore? If you have an organization full of reps that are average at cold email, it is absolutely not worth doing. So, what we're going to talk about is how to make sure that those reps are executing properly, they're doing it in a way that doesn't take a lot of time, and that they're landing highquality meetings that can turn into pipeline. And so, here's the thing, folks, is a lot of people obsess writing the perfect cold email. And if their team is struggling with cold email, they obsess for days about the perfect subject line, the perfect framework, the body, the CTA, and all that stuff. And all that stuff is fine. But if you write the perfect cold email and send it to the wrong prospect, or if you write the perfect email, but it's not in the right language for your prospect, it doesn't matter how good that cold email is. the right cold email language on the wrong prospect is still the wrong cold email. Let's start by breaking down how to first build your minimum viable cold email framework. And that starts with breaking down your personas and your messaging. So the first thing that I would recommend is you need to work with RevOps. And I can't tell you how many teams are on that don't do this. Like you need to get data that tells you where do we win the most and who are the personas that when we land first meetings with them, we have the highest win rates, shortest sales cycles, etc. there's data that you can use to drive that decision-making. So once you found those personas, messaging, the reason why you want to have good baseline messaging is that's the foundation for a cold call talk track. That's the foundation for a cold email template. That's the foundation for how you handle objections. It's how you customize and add relevance into the conversation. So your messaging at a minimum needs to cover four main areas for that persona. their current priorities, how they get the job done. So, their current solutions, their problems, and then their aspirations. So, what you should see mapped out for your persona is what they care about in their priorities that aligns with your solution, how they get the job done, the problems, which is going to be the reason to take a meeting with you, and then ultimately what they aspire to do. Once you get this information, then we can turn it into emails and talk tracks. So for example, I used to be the VP of sales at a company called PAVE and we would sell compensation software to HR leaders and we would basically help them run their merit cycles, their compensation reviews. If I go step by step through what our messaging matrix sounded like, step one, the priorities of a compensation leader are to retain your best talent through merit-based compensation increases. In other words, you want the best people to get paid the most so that they stay around. That's number one. your current solutions with that? Well, most commonly what you are doing to solve that problem as a compensation leader is you're giving people compensation increases every six months and you're running compensation reviews usually on spreadsheets. The problem that they typically run into is when you get to an org of a 100 managers, you literally have a 100 different compensation spreadsheets and compensation processes that you need to oversee. And it's really hard to make sure that every single manager is making equitable comp decisions in the same way when you're toggling through a hundred different tabs. And then our aspirations is that you could close your eyes and you would know you would sleep at night knowing that every single manager was making equitable comp decisions. They weren't giving big comp increases to bottom performers. And if there was ever something wrong, you would immediately know about it. So that would be an example messaging matrix that would give me a starting point for what I could possibly put in my cold emails. This is the way that you can test every rep's knowledge over what the prospect actually cares about. This is something that just should be universal language within the org. So once you have that messaging matrix, what you can do now is think about the cold email framework. So the cold email framework, what we found to work best is a four-part framework. Uh the very first line of the email needs to be the reason why you're reaching out. This is the sentence that is usually personalized and this is where you're going to point out something specifically about the prospect that relates to a problem you think they might be having. That's the second line. The third line is social proof and value. So, a problem you think they might be having related to a similar company that you're helping and the outcomes that you've helped them generate. And then lastly, a short call to action. So, it's reason, problem, value, and social proof, and then call to action. That messaging matrix is going to help you be able to populate the copy for that email. So, folks, the focus of this video is to teach you how to teach your team the email frameworks, not specifically going through the email framework step by step. So, if you want to see examples of what these emails look like, we put a couple examples in the show notes, and we also broke this down on one of our sales episodes for the reps out there. So, if you want to get access to that cold email framework, go click the link below. But otherwise, what you need to know so far is number one, you need to build a messaging matrix and teach your team industry knowledge before you have them start writing emails. And then two, you need to give them a flexible framework so that they can write a cold email without literally copy pasting whatever template you had used before. And then lastly, Jason, we know we're not just going to send one cold email. So what else do we need? So if I could add one little nugget to that, it would be don't create the templates for your reps. I think you can create some as a starting point, but workshop them together either in a small group with your best reps or just let everyone try to come up with their best stuff. And if you have that messaging matrix and you've taught them the framework, you'll be really surprised at how good some of the emails are that your reps are going to be able to come up with. So lastly, you need two to three base sequences. So if we're using your example, Arand, there's different personas that you're going to be reaching out to. And one of the things that reps tend to miss the mark on that you need to be aware of as a leader. So they reach out to people with similar messaging in IC and manager roles who are below the power line as Skip Miller would say as prospects who are above the power line. Director VP plus. These people have very different jobs. The VP plus is much closer to the business problem and they need to speak more in business outcomes and business problems. So you need different sequences for each of those personas. And that's a good starting point. >> So for example, when I was at PAVE, we had two major base sequences. We were reaching out to HR leaders all the time. And we broke that up into above the line HR leaders director and above and below the line who were typically manager and below. Manager and below people were usually focused on operational problems like the spreadsheets and the amount of time that they spent doing VLOOKUPs and all that nonsense. People above the line were typically focused on priorities like retention. and a lot of those priorities and aspirations we talked about in the messaging matrix. And then from there, if there was a specific campaign that was more important than above the line or below the line differentiation, for example, if we were reaching out to a closed loss opportunity, we had separate sequences for other like big events, whether that was closed lost opportunities, sometimes it was literally a big event that we were inviting people to, and we had purpose-built sequences for other campaigns that we would run as a sales team. So, I've got my messaging matrix to teach my team personas. I've got my cold email framework, which helps them write one cold email. And then I have two or three base sequences that are multi-touch sequences that mix in calls, emails, LinkedIn touches, and more. By the way, we also have some links to those templates in the show notes as well. And now, what I need to do is I need to move on and teach my team all of this stuff in a way that doesn't give them massive indigestion because it's a lot of information. So Jason, how do I go about teaching my team cold email? >> I think there's a couple things. One, you want to do your traditional enablement style session, right? It might be a a week's worth of 1-hour calls on a Tuesday, Wednesday, and a Thursday, let's say, to roll out the framework. You should be able to do this in about 2 or 3 hours. I think the really important thing in the way that you structure those sessions, it shouldn't just be enablement in front talking and teaching the entire time. There should be a rep or a leader doing that alongside of enablement. Someone that has practically done this before. And you should break up those sessions where there is some teaching and then some exercises. Teaching and then some exercises. For example, if you taught that reply method framework that we just talked about, one of the first things that you might do in one of those sessions is say, "Hey, now we're going to find five accounts that we could write this email to. I'm going to put you in a breakout room with a partner for 10 minutes. Go find those five accounts. Share it with your partner. Then we bring it back to the broad group. This is, by the way, how you can run enablement sessions that reps don't hate. Make them interactive. Put them in a breakout room. They come back. Right? Now they go and pull the contacts. They come back. Now they go do the research and they come back. And maybe that first session is all about how do we find good reasons and triggers for reaching out. The second session could be use the framework to write an email and then come into that session with it. Then we enable around the framework. We work in breakout rooms, give each other feedback, come back, etc., etc. So, you need to teach this upfront in an interactive manner where reps can get coaching. We used to call this shuttle run drilling when I was at PAVE or a less politically correct name. Some teams call them suicides where, you know, you run to the 5 yard line and then the 10 yard line and then the 20 yard line and then the 50 yard line and you keep coming back. And the reason for that is if you run seven hours of training and then you say, "Great, start running cold emails." The problem is your team makes a million mistakes from account selection to pulling the wrong contacts to writing the wrong email for the wrong contact. And so you want to break up your trainings bit by bit where they learn a little bit and then they do a little bit. And so the way that we would do this at Pave and onboarding is we would run that messaging matrix, that persona training session as one standalone session. I'd be like, great, go find five accounts that meet that criteria. And then next day, we would go through the cold email framework. I'd be like, awesome. Go find the right people to reach out to and take your first pass at those emails. Great. And then from there, it'd be like, all right, now we're going to write the rest of the sequence touches. go take that first email and string together all the other parts of the sequence. So in onboarding, try to run messaging, the cold email framework, and the sequence framework as three separate trainings. And then like Jason said, go 50/50 on learning and doing in each session. And that's how you actually get the stuff to stick with your reps. That's super important. Your cold email reply rates literally triple if you pair them with a cold call. Right now, you can get 34% off our 30 Minutes to President's Club outbound bundle, which includes our cold calling course, Cold Calls to President's Club, which will teach you exactly what to do, what to say, and how to sound for every single step of a cold call. It also includes our cold email course, which will teach you how to write personalized onetoone feeling cold emails in minutes, not hours, and how to make worldclass offers to your buyer to solicit responses instead of just asking for time. And so if you go to 30mppc.com/courses, go check out our outbound bundle and you will find yourself booking meeting after meeting after meeting and on your way to President's Club. So once we've enabled really what you need to do from a frontline leader standpoint is teach them how to really make this a part of everything that they do and operationalize it into their team's weekly rhythm. So there's a couple elements. Habit stacking, I think, is the best way to do this to begin with. take a meeting or an activity that is already happening on a regular basis and stack this into that. So, part of the one-on-one, you know what every rep should prep while you're rolling this out, coming into the one-on-one, they should send or prepare an email for their manager, and their manager should look at that email and have critique on the email prior to the one-on-one. And that should be a fiveminute talking point. There's typically a weekly team meeting that's an hour long that people will do. Sometimes people will do a couple of them, but part of that team meeting should be spent bring in a cold email that you sent and we're going to do rewrites together or bring in a cold email that we sent and your partner is going to break it down and give you some feedback. So, those are two really easy ways to do it. The other thing that I see our best-in-class clients do is, and I'm thinking specifically of a a sales manager, Eric, that we worked with. We did these two 1-hour enablement blocks essentially per week for 6 weeks to train their team. He just replaced those with outbound power hours. So he would have reps come in and he would do the enablement session. Hey, five minutes. Bring in a tip for email. 15 minutes. Reps write their own emails. They get feedback from a partner. They write more emails. So having a couple power hours or blocks where you do this, especially for account executives can be really effective as well. Folks, the biggest mistake that I see sales leaders make when training teams is they spend 80% of their time in the training and then 20% of their time in the reinforcement. And the ratio should be flipped. You should spend 20% of your time teaching your team a concept and then the next four weeks spend 80% of your time reinforcing it every single week. So if you teach a cold call framework in week one, spend the next three weeks doing cold call reviews. If you teach a cold email framework, spend the next three weeks doing cold email reviews. If you teach a discovery framework, spend the next three weeks doing discovery call reviews. If you've ever tried to roll out something and it didn't stick, nine times out of 10 is because you shouted it into the ether and then you asked your team to do something else the next day and you tried to trade on another thing instead of hammering that one thing a million times through until they could literally complete your sentences. So, keep hammering it in for an entire month and then move on to the next topic. So Jason, we've talked about training our team up front. As we're training them, we're running shuttle run drills so that they get it one piece at a time. Then we're running multi-week reinforcement sessions. So now it really sticks. And at a certain point, I need to make sure that my team is actually seeing results. And often times the way I can do that is one by looking at the emails, but then two by looking at the data. So can you walk us through some of the most important cold email benchmarks we should be looking at? >> Yeah, there's really three. You call them I like this the golden cold email >> golden three. >> The golden three. So one's open rate. Uh we need to know are these emails getting opened or not? Uh two reply rate. Are they getting replied to or not? And then the meeting booked rate. Are they turning into meetings? So there's some general kind of benchmarks. Open r's a little bit of a tricky one because we don't know if spam filters and things like that might be throwing off the open rate, but we do know if it's really low, something's probably not working well. Uh, so the average open rate's 27%, the top 25%'s 46, and then the top 10% 57. In my opinion, if your open rate is not at least 40%, like you're doing something very, very wrong, and you need to fix it. So if your open rate's not 40 plus%, what you need to think about is the subject lines and then deliverability. So all of the data that we source from Gong and everything that we teach, the shorter the better with subject lines, four words or less, all lowercase letters, and it needs to be something about the prospect. So priority based language. So if I'm selling a welding solution, it's welders. It's not automate your welding. We don't pitch in the subject lines. Deliverability, there's a lot of different stuff you can do. mail-tester.com is the best place to start. Send a test email. It'll let you know everything you're doing wrong from a deliverability standpoint. >> So, a lot of times I'll see sales leaders make this big mistake where they see their sales rep sending a thousand emails and no meetings are coming out. And so, what do they do? They're like, "Let me go fix all the email copy and then I'll go under the hood and I'll start looking at their metrics." And the first thing that I'll look at is, are the emails even being open in the first place? And if they're at a 10% open rate, I don't even need to look at what's inside of the email. I know they've either got a deliverability problem and their emails are being sent to spam, which might mean that there are images in the email. I don't know. Or two, their subject lines suck and they're super spammy. And so what's inside the email doesn't even matter at that point. What matters is getting your deliverability fixed and getting your subject lines fixed so that prospects even open your email in the first place. And I think you made a good point that I want to double down on too is like you have to fix the right problem. So make sure you're focused on the right thing. Step number one is are they even opening the emails or not? Step number two with reply rate. This is going to swing on average from 1.9%. Dude, the sad part is a lot of sales leaders would be really happy if their team had 1.9% reply rate. Pretty good honestly. >> Um and the top 10% 7.89%. really with reply rates like 5%. Dude, if you're if you're good uh across the board, 5%'s awesome. If it's not working, you mentioned this at the very beginning, could be a targeting issue. So, the first thing I want to know is are these even going to people that could say yes to us. That's number one. Number two is messaging. There's some really quick, easy things in here. Uh, one is length of email. 50 to 100 words is the sweet spot. Three to four sentences. honestly fixing the length of the email. That's probably half the problem if you're not getting replies. The other piece is around how we message and what we put into the email itself. And I'll give you just a couple quick tips. Same rules apply for reply rates. When you pitch, use buzzwords, AI, etc., it literally reduces your reply rates by as much as 52%. So, I want to use priority based language and I want to leverage social proof specifically is going to have a really dramatic impact on your reply rates. And last but not least, the call to action. What you want to make sure of is that you're not asking for time. That's going to have a pretty dramatic negative effect. I think it's 44% lower reply rates when you ask for time. When you ask for interest and make offers in exchange of value for the prospect's time, you're going to get a pretty dramatic boost in those emails. So, as a leader, spot check. What are my reps asking for? And a lot of them don't even have call to actions in it is will be the surprising thing. You'll see emails with no questions at the end of them. So, look at those call to actions. So folks, bringing this full circle from the first section where we talked about the importance of personas and messaging versus the email framework. Reply rate is one of those places where it's pretty hard to decode what's going on. You could be looking at all these emails for days and be like, I don't understand why I have a 1% reply rate because the emails look really good, but there might be a targeting issue where you start to look at who they're sending the emails to is like completely wrong persona. So there can be two things that go wrong in the reply rate. It could either be what's inside of the email or it could be who you're sending the emails to in the first place. So always make sure that you look at both of those things when you're decoding reply rate. And last but not least is your meeting booked rate. So 29% is average. 29% and 2.34% is top 10enter. So again, same kind of things here. Are we targeting the right people? Let's look at messaging. Let's look at formatting. There are other like little things in the email around use of bullet points and caps and italics. All of this stuff negatively impacts meeting booked rates and reply rates. I think the most important thing though is as a spot check, what's really helpful is look at the negative replies and see what people are replying with cuz there's an opportunity to do a couple things. What often doesn't get talked about is how you flip an email objection into a booked meeting. So, your reps automatically when they get an objection, unless it's unsubscribe or f off or something like that at the email, they should be picking up the phone and calling the prospect. You can book meetings all day long from stuff like that. So, don't let reps go back and forth with that kind of stuff. The other thing that you want to spot check for too is oftent times a prospect will say, "Yes, I want to meet." And then the rep makes them do all of this work to book a meeting with them. They don't provide a meeting link. They don't suggest times. They just say, "Are you free next week?" So, keep in mind the replies, look at how your rep is handling those replies and what your prospect is replying with. The last key that I would give you, the third one is if you're getting specific objections in those replies, you can build some of that copy into the email itself. So, if people are saying, "We do this ourselves, we use a competitor, etc." Like, you can build that into your email messaging to prevent it. >> So, folks, we talked about single email metrics. So, if your open rate, your reply rate, or your meeting rate is down on any email in your sequence, what do you actually do about it? Well, here's the biggest mistake that people will make whenever they try to fix a problem is they'll be like, "Our open rates are off, our reply rates are down. I'm going to rip out the entire sequence and start over." I I was a wrestler back in high school and college and oftentimes we would be teaching someone how to shoot a double leg takedown and if there was something wrong we would be like all right on your finish try to like pull your elbows in a little bit or on your setup try to snap the head a little bit more. We wouldn't be like you know what let's just try a completely different shot and drop this one entirely. So like don't throw away all of the progress that you've already made in your sequence. Instead, find the part of the sequence that's underperforming and AB test that. A good sequence is built over 6 to9 months. It's built over years of learning and tweaking messaging. And so, every single week, I always recommend teams, pick one part of your sequence and make one tweak. So, if one of your bump emails is underperforming, try going from sending them a GIF to sending them a case study. Or instead of going for a case study, send a breakup email. tweak that one email and then see what happens. And then the next week, try to tweak your first email and be like, "Hey, one of these triggers doesn't seem right. One of these personalization triggers doesn't seem right. I'm going to try a different personalization trigger." And then over time, you will build the perfect sequence. But you're never going to build the perfect sequence if you start over and over again. So, we talked about conversion metrics, and now the final metric to look at is how many emails should I actually be sending? And this is probably the hardest question to just like templatize because if you're in enterprise sales versus SMB sales, it's going to be like massively different. So Jason, how can we start to unpack this? So I think a a rep and SDR could realistically personalize five accounts per day. Probably three to five contacts depending on if they're enterprise or not within those accounts. So if we did the five accounts per day, that's 25 accounts per week. 75ish contacts. Roll that out for four weeks. three to 400 emails. Again, if if we got every rep to follow the guidelines that we're asking and then did that, like you would be really happy as a sales leader. So, where this starts to change though is you had mentioned like segment like SMB working a really big patch volume is going to be much higher. There's going to be more automation, less personalized emails. They might have sequences that don't even have call steps in them. It might be call only sequences with a dialer. I mean, there's just all kinds of different nuance there. And then you have your enterprise and small patch where you might only have 50 accounts and you know, maybe you're working 5 to 10 like for an entire month even, right? And you're going super deep because they have multiple business units. But I think the the effort piece that you can look at is five accounts per day for someone that has to research these accounts and write the emails. That's a handful. If you're an account executive, again, if I was managing these people, I'd be happy if they did a five by five, five accounts the entire week and five contacts, three to five contacts at each of those accounts. >> So, you got to come up with some base level of effort that a person needs to spend in order for it to be realistic for them to get the outcomes. So, often times what I'll do is I'll ask a team, start with your top rep. How many accounts does your top rep work? How many emails does your top rep send every single week? And they might be like, they drop 25 accounts in a sequence a week. That's 75 new contacts in sequence per week. It's a four-week sequence. So that gets you like 300 to 400 emails a week. And they typically book three to four meetings off of that. And I'm like, "Okay, cool." So that's like baseline. Okay. So 25 accounts per week, 300 400 emails per week. If you want to get more meetings, then you either have your team send more emails or better converting emails. And how you decide if you go more emails or better emails is you can send more emails if you have more TAM. you have more accounts you can reach out to. If you don't have more accounts you can reach out to, you got to send better emails. It's pretty simple, but like throw a rod into the river and like draw a line in the sand and see if that gets you the amount of meetings that you need. And if not, do more or do better. >> I think you mentioned something really important too around like none of this is static. You have to just start doing it and then adjust based on the results and the data. >> So folks, let's recap everything that we covered. So first we talked about building your minimum viable cold email framework to teach your team. There are three parts of it. Your messaging matrix, your cold email framework, and your two to three base sequences. And again, templates to all of those are in the show notes. Number two, we said teach it in onboarding upfront in three separate sessions. And then reinforce it every single week in a meeting that is already happening ideally. And then three, we talked about the golden three metrics, which are your open rate, your reply rate, and your meeting rate. And then we talked about throwing that rod in the line to figure out what baseline volume should look like and then doing either more or better to tweak from there. So folks, if you like this one one, there are a ton of free resources that we've included in the show notes, the sequences, the email templates, multiple examples, and all of this stuff comes directly from the cold email course that we put together with the one and only Jason Bay right here. And if you're listening to this video, then you exclusively because you are one of our wonderful YouTube friends, get a discount code right here to get this course because you're watching this live. And folks, if you like this one, you'll definitely like what's inside of that course. We'll see you on the next one.
