# Use This Cold Email Sequence to 3x Your Replies in 2025

**URL**: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f1FdxGD_aY4  
**Video ID**: f1FdxGD_aY4

---

70% of your replies come from the emails you send after the first email. That's why sequences are so important because if you send a one-off email, your chances of getting a reply are like less than 1%. So the key here is well, what does that blueprint look like, right? How many times should you send emails? In what order, what the spacing should be, how you should follow up. So what we're going to give you is a simple sequencing strategy that you can use to incorporate phone, email, and social together to drive contact rates. We're going to talk about different types of sequences, so how you can tier your efforts based on the value of the meeting. And then I'm going to give you some really quick hitting tactics. They're going to help you drive double-digit contact rates. All of the data supports that you're going to nearly double your reply rate when you add phone calls. And if you do phone calls plus voicemails, you're going to increase your reply rate by 3.24x. Your sequence is 14 to 28 days ideally. And the reason for this is, you know, one, we don't want to be so pesky that we make people unsubscribe to our emails. So sending too many emails in a condensed period of time is going to do that. We also don't want to spread it out too much over a quarter, let's say, because really this is all about making a lot of noise and doing it in bursts. If we're not doing that a one-off email, we're not going to see how that's connected to the voicemail, to the phone call, etc. So people tend to really overthink sequencing. There's no magic blueprint or formula. There's some principles that we can follow and I like to call it keep it simple sequencing. Okay, the the weekly touch pattern looks a lot like what you see on the screen here. We're going to do a combination of double and triple taps. So the first time we reach out to someone, we're going to do a triple tap. Our contact rates statistically will increase by 3.1x. When we call people, we follow it up with a voicemail, email them at the same time, and then we hit them up on social. So let's say day one's a Tuesday. We're going to wait a business day, hit them up on Thursday, and we're going to do a double tap. Phone call followed by an email. A way that you can think of this from a productivity standpoint that's pretty cool is instead of sending the email and then making the call, you can cue up your emails to go out during your call block so that you can just hit the phones while your emails are going out. The second thing that you can do that's pretty effective is what we call following the engagement. So you'll notice that second touch that we do over the phone in our sales engagement platform. What we can do is look for people that are opening up emails on LinkedIn. We could look for people visiting our profile. So remember activity based personalization. So taking action based off the prospect's action them showing engagement. You're going to have higher pickup rates over the phone. You're going to have higher reply rates via email. Third is bump emails. We're going to talk about this in the next section. But what you can leverage here in the sequence, we're going to show you some examples here in a bit, is the second, third emails that you send to someone, you're not sending a full long- winded email. You're just bumping it with one sentence. Like any thoughts, for example. Part of the reason for this, Jason, is like if we put together this really, really great email about their welder initiative and how they've got a gap in their talent pipeline and like it's a killer email. If I then take all of this effort to write another killer email, like they're not going to see the original first one. This actually draws our attention back to that badass first email that we did. >> So, the fourth tactic that we can put into place here is pointing voicemails to emails. Voicemails have something like a 90 plus% open rate. Almost every prospect is going to at least click on a voicemail to see the transcription of it. And statistically, again, your reply rates will over 3x if we're leaving voicemails. So instead of asking for a call back in the voicemail, we're literally going to point the prospect to the email that we sent them. Give them the subject line and you can download some of those scripts below. So let's talk about the number of sequences that you should have and how you should think about tiering. So if we use the edtech example, let's say that we have a director of curriculum and instruction and one of our other personas is a principal. We're going to have to message those two quite a bit differently. Each of them deserves their own sequence. When I was selling compensation software at PAVE, it was really simple. We had one sequence for above the line HR leaders who were thinking about retention and then another sequence for belowthe-line HR analysts and operations leaders who are thinking about the day-to-day pain of running a compensation cycle in spreadsheets and then we had a series of purpose-built sequences if there was a key trigger because that would define the messaging. So, for example, if someone had just announced that they're going to go public, we had a preparing to have public equity sequence and that worked for both above or below the line because the most important part of the messaging was the fact that this company was about to go public and so we knew all of their stock options were now going to change to public stock. So, the second way that you can think of that is what are the situations that I run into on a repetitive basis. The sequence can do some of the work for you so you don't have to customize so much each time. The second part of sequencing is taring. Again, you're going to see sales teams or reps that have 20 different types of sequences. You only need to have two. Okay? There's a high effort sequence and a loweffort sequence. High effort, think about the most valuable meeting you could possibly land. That deserves all of the manual effort that you can give it. You're going to make all of the phone calls. You're going to personalize the emails. You're going to hit them up on LinkedIn, etc. The loweffort sequence is, hey, maybe it's a Btier account. Maybe it's a prospect who, yeah, it would be great to get this meeting, but I don't have time to put in a lot of extra effort to it. This might be a fully automated sequence. Or at most, I send automated emails and I'll call people that open up the emails. When I was prospecting law firms, an example of a prospect that would get high effort for me would be the managing partner of a thousand attorney law firm. But a loweffort prospect for me would be a billing analyst, maybe even at that same firm or the managing partner of like a 10 attorney firm. That meeting with the managing partner of the big firm was worth like 12 with those like lower effort prospects. So I wanted to use unequal effort because the value of meetings with these prospects was unequal. We put together three tiering examples below that you can download. So, if you're thinking about, you know, how does this work if I sell enterprise and strat versus mid-market versus SMB, make sure to check out some of those examples. So, let's look at an example of a high effort sequence. So, if we kind of step back for a second and just look at what it is that we're trying to do, what you'll see here is there's really two problem angles that we're approaching. There's one core priority around achievement gaps where we're going to have the first three emails focus on that. the first three phone calls, our first couple social touches, everything's going to focus on achievement gaps. The next set of touches, and by the way, those are all on the same email chain. We're going to start a new email chain that's more focused on a second problem, graduation rates. That's going to have your three emails, your three phone calls, a couple social touches. So, if we zoom in, let's take a look at what these emails actually look like. So, that first email, what you'll notice is that's a personalized, longer email. It's focused around the multiple tiers of instruction, intervention, all the stuff that we've talked about before. We call and leave a voicemail, follow, like, comment on LinkedIn. Then we wait a business day and on the third day of the sequence, we bump it. This bump email, we'll teach you a bunch of different variations of bump emails. The only purpose of this bump email is to get another email into the inbox with something valuable. In this case, they recorded a fireside chat with the head of the LA school district. Super simple, on the same email chain. We call, don't leave a voicemail. We bump it a third and last time in that email chain with a really simple oneliner question. Want to try it out in one of your classrooms. Doesn't cost anything. Caleb, call, leave a voicemail. Send a connection request on LinkedIn. Now, what we're going to do is hit that second email chain. So, new subject line, but this one's going to be focused on graduation rates. And as you can see, personalized longer email follows the same exact format, new email chain, different problem. and I do the same exact thing I did before. So, I call, leave a voicemail, I bump it just like I did before, except for this time, we decided to use a case study. Here's a case study on how Seattle increased graduation rates by 7.8% last year. >> Call plus a voicemail. This time, I might send an email on LinkedIn. And last but not least, my very last bump emails. Any thoughts? So, that's an example of what a higheffort sequence could look like. I think one of the really powerful things about this sequence is you've got two emails that are deeply personalized where you're calling out something from like the annual report and tying it to the problem. And if you haven't taken action on that AI module that Jason took us through earlier in this course, that is the best way to operationalize this stuff without spending hours and hours and hours writing multiple personalized emails for a prospect from scratch. So now let's talk about the loweffort sequence. So again, the idea here with the loweffort sequence is this is focused on an account that maybe is not as valuable to me or in a type of persona where like, okay, cool. It would it would be great to get the meeting, but I'm not going to spend a lot of manual effort. There's a couple different ways you could think of this. One, you could just go fully automated. So, you take out all of the call steps, you don't personalize any of the emails, and you just go fully automated. Another way that you could think of this too is maybe I just send the fully automated emails and I only call prospects who open those emails cuz the likelihood that I get a hold of them is much higher. So here's an example what that would look like for the automated welding solution with the VP of ops. So if you guys take a look at the first email here, what you'll see is that this is an automated email, but look at the first line. Looks like there's a lot of manual rework and touch-up in your welds. >> That's a pervasive problem, right? >> Yes, it's a pervasive problem. if I were to call out a specific trailer, it would be personalized, >> but I'm doing something that's like really really close to that. So, just because we're sending an automated email doesn't mean it should look super templative. And again, same email chain. I send the second email. Here's how an ops leader at Caterpillar is leveraging automation to replace welders. It's a case study. Bump email. Worth a quick chat to see how this could reduce the need for welders. New email chain, longer email. Not sure if you're running into this, but many ops leaders are running into bottlenecks with over reliance on manual welds. Again, it's not personalized, but it doesn't have a templated look and feel. >> It starts with like not sure if you're running into this, but a lot of ops teams are running into bottlenecks with over reliance on manual welds, right? It's like not trying to fake personalization, but it's still very clearly demonstrating that I intentionally sent this email to you because you're in this industry where I work with other people like you. Pervasive problem feels closer to home than a general problem that is still true about yourself. So, pick pervasive problems rather than generic aspirations is what I think you're saying in some ways. >> Yeah. And then I bump it a couple times. Here's how Diamond C trailers increase throughput by 21% with automation. So, the case study bump. And then last but not least, this is more of a breakup style email that we'll talk about in the next section. I shared a few ways to help your team increase throughput with automated welding. I'd hate to keep reaching out if we weren't a fit. Mind letting me know if this is relevant or not. [Applause] [Music]
